Welcome back.

So let us have a look at what exactly we are building.

So this is the framework architecture and it has got multiple components.

And do not get overwhelmed with this architecture.

It is not that complex.

It does have multiple components that are going to work together to help us build a robust production

ready test automation framework, which will be maintainable, readable and scalable.

So we are going to use Cucumber along with selenium and rest assured.

So we will have the feature files that will have the gherkins, the executable specifications.

The glue code will be in the step definitions.

The hooks will be used to initialize the Webdriver object.

So we will have before hook to initialize the Webdriver and after hook to quit the driver.

The Webdriver will be supplied by the factory.

The driver factory.

The Webdriver will be sent to the page objects.

So we are going to have a page object model design in our framework.

So each page object is going to represent a page or a component in the application.

The driver object will be sent to a base page, and this is where we are going to implement the weight

strategy and we are going to initialize the page factory elements.

The page objects will be the subclasses of the base page.

So on the cucumber side, we will create domain objects, for example, product, customer address and

so on.

And we are going to use custom types to directly convert the gherkin data to the domain objects.

On the rest assured side, we are going to have reusable, rest assured methods to make the API calls.

It can be the get method and the post method and then we are going to automate the application APIs

which will be triggered using the reusable rest assured methods.

The application APIs will also be providing the cookies that we can inject in the browser and the same

cookies can be used to make the subsequent API call.

So for a particular scenario, these steps will be in different step definition classes.

So we need to share the objects among these steps, right?

So we need to share the webdriver object, the domain objects and the cookies.

So for these objects we are going to create a test context and we may also add page objects in the test

context.

And then we are going to use the dependency injection framework that will help us inject these objects

into our steps.

So we are going to use the Picco container library for this task and it is a very good library for dependency

injection.

On this side, we will have some common utilities and the common files.

For example, we will have config properties.

For example, we will have some cucumber related settings in the cucumber properties.

Then we will have environment related information in environment dot properties file.

The test data, we will put that in the Json file and among the utilities we are going to use faker

API to create the fake data.

We are going to use Jaxson to parse the Json.

For cookies.

We are going to have cookie utilities to convert the rest assured cookies to selenium cookies, and

then we are going to have properties utility to read the config properties file.

We are also going to have a few classes that will hold the constants.

So with this, we will not have hard coding in the code.

So on the runner side we are going to use JUnit to execute the scenarios, but we will also have a look

at testing and the cucumber runner in case there are differences, for example, parallel execution.

So our framework will support all the three runners on the side.

Our framework will be supporting Maven, the project will be Maven based and we will be using the Maven

command to execute the scenarios.

This same Maven command can be used in the Jenkins job for executing the automation, so we are going

to integrate our automation with GitHub as well as with Jenkins and we are going to execute it through

Jenkins as part of the CI process.

So this way we can accomplish the end to end execution.

On the reporting side, we are going to use the cucumber reports and probably we will also have a look

at the serenity reports for cucumber.

So these are the features that we are looking at for our automation framework.

We are going to follow the Gherkin good practices.

We are going to use Cucumber efficiently to support BDD.

We are not going to use it as the test automation framework, right.

So we are going to use domain objects.

We are going to follow good programming and automation practices.

So on the programming side, we are going to follow the single responsibility principle and they do

not repeat yourself principle on the automation side.

We are going to make sure that our scenarios are independent.

We are not sharing the driver instance.

We are not sharing the test data and we are creating the application state using the APIs and not using

the UI.

So the framework is going to support multiple runners.

The JUnit test and CLI and it is going to support parallel execution using JUnit test and CLI.

So I am going to demonstrate all of this in the course.

Do not worry about that.

We are going to use the dependency injection framework.

So we are going to eliminate the use of threadlocal, the static keyword and we are going to use the

dependency injection to inject our shared objects into our steps.

We are going to integrate the APIs to set up the application state.

So this is another important selenium guideline that we are going to follow.

We are going to capture screenshot on scenario failure.

Then the automation is going to support the command line execution using Maven for seamless integration

with the process and the automation will support the CI CD integration and we are going to integrate

it with GitHub and then with Jenkins and execute it as part of the process.

So in Jenkins there are different ways to trigger the automation.

We are going to have a look at the build frequency, the polling as well as the GitHub web hooks, which

is the preferred option.

So stay tuned and concentrate.

Follow me so that you will understand all the concepts that I am going to explain in the framework.